---
title: Introduction to TypeScript
author: Michał Fedyna
next: basic-types
---

# Welcome to TypeScript!

::alert
This is a work in progress. If you have any feedback, please [open an issue](https://github.com/michalfedyna/typescript-example/issues/new).
::

TypeScript is a powerful, open-source language that builds on JavaScript by adding syntax for type declarations and other powerful features. It's a superset of JavaScript, meaning all valid JavaScript code is also valid TypeScript code. TypeScript is designed to help you write more reliable and maintainable JavaScript code, and it's especially well-suited for large-scale applications.

## **What is TypeScript?**

- **Superset of JavaScript:** TypeScript is built on top of JavaScript, adding a powerful type system and other powerful features. This means all valid JavaScript code is also valid TypeScript code.
- **Optional Static Typing:** TypeScript allows you to define the types of variables, function parameters, and return values. This means if you try to use a number where a string is expected, TypeScript will warn you even before you run your code.
- **Compile-Time Safety:** TypeScript code is "transpiled" (converted) into regular JavaScript before execution. During this process, TypeScript checks for type errors, helping prevent a whole class of common JavaScript bugs.

## **Why Use TypeScript?**

- **Improved Maintainability:** Type definitions make your code more self-documenting. Large, complex projects become easier to understand and manage.
- **Enhanced Reliability:** Catch potential errors _before_ your code runs, reducing the likelihood of runtime surprises.
- **Better Tooling:** TypeScript's type information powers advanced code editors, providing better code completion, navigation, and refactoring support.
- **Scalability:** TypeScript is designed to support the structure and organization needed for large-scale applications.

## **Simple Example**

```typescript
function addNumbers(num1: number, num2: number): number {
  return num1 + num2;
}

// This is okay:
let result = addNumbers(5, 10);

// This will throw a TypeScript error:
let wrongResult = addNumbers("hello", 5);
```
