---
title: Introduction
author: Michał Fedyna
---

# Welcome to TypeScript!

::alert
This is a work in progress. If you have any feedback, please [open an issue](https://github.com/michalfedyna/typescript-example/issues/new).
::

TypeScript is a powerful, open-source language that builds on JavaScript by adding syntax for type declarations and other powerful features. It's a superset of JavaScript, meaning all valid JavaScript code is also valid TypeScript code. TypeScript is designed to help you write more reliable and maintainable JavaScript code, and it's especially well-suited for large-scale applications.

## **What is TypeScript?**

- **Superset of JavaScript:** TypeScript is built on top of JavaScript, adding a powerful type system and other powerful features. This means all valid JavaScript code is also valid TypeScript code.
- **Optional Static Typing:** TypeScript allows you to define the types of variables, function parameters, and return values. This means if you try to use a number where a string is expected, TypeScript will warn you even before you run your code.
- **Compile-Time Safety:** TypeScript code is "transpiled" (converted) into regular JavaScript before execution. During this process, TypeScript checks for type errors, helping prevent a whole class of common JavaScript bugs.

## **Why Use TypeScript?**

- **Improved Maintainability:** Type definitions make your code more self-documenting. Large, complex projects become easier to understand and manage.
- **Enhanced Reliability:** Catch potential errors _before_ your code runs, reducing the likelihood of runtime surprises.
- **Better Tooling:** TypeScript's type information powers advanced code editors, providing better code completion, navigation, and refactoring support.
- **Scalability:** TypeScript is designed to support the structure and organization needed for large-scale applications.

### **TypeScript in the Wild**

TypeScript is used by many large companies and projects, including:

- **Microsoft:** TypeScript was developed by Microsoft and is used in many of their products, including Visual Studio Code and Azure.
- **Google:** Google uses TypeScript in many of their projects, including Angular, one of the most popular front-end frameworks.
- **Airbnb:** Airbnb uses TypeScript in their front-end codebase to improve maintainability and reliability.
- **Slack:** Slack uses TypeScript to build their desktop and web clients, as well as their server-side code.
- **Many More:** TypeScript is used by many other companies and projects, including Asana, Lyft, and Shopify.

## **Examples**

### Variables

```typescript
const name: string = "Hello, TypeScript!";

let age: number = 42;

// Error: Type '"42"' is not assignable to type 'number'.
age = "42";
```

### Functions

```typescript
function greet(name: string): string {
  return `Hello, ${name}!`;
}

// You don't need to specify the variable type, TypeScript can infer it.
const greeting = greet("TypeScript");

// Error: Argument of type 'number' is not assignable to parameter of type 'string'.
const error: string = greet(42);
```
